often times coyotes become a nuisance
for people because oftentimes people
don't understand that they're attracting
coyotes for example in more arid
locations the the mere act of watering
your lawn can eventually attract coyotes
mainly because watering the lawn may
provide forage for rabbits or for
rodents which then will be prey items
that will attract the Coyotes in and
before long you have coyotes living down
the street or under the abandoned house
next door
coyotes acclimate to people very well
and one of the things that they find as
an interesting food item in and around
people are especially house cats or
small dogs they become prey to coyotes
coyotes will move in between houses and
run along the tops of fences in order to
move from one property to the next or to
move long distances in a quick short
amount of time we definitely get a lot
of reports of human coyote encounters
especially along the bike trails and
things along the lake and the Coyotes
are a little bit more habituated to
humans and we definitely teach the
public how to be safe when you're out if
you have your dog make sure they are on
a leash you have a stick or a whistle or
something that could maybe frighten the
animal away but it is it is an issue
that we are hearing more and more about
when first responders go to scenes and
they find coyotes
oftentimes it's it's good to give advice
to the public to not feed pets outside
coyote so quickly adapt to that whether
it's cat food or dog food don't don't
leave your pets outside if there's small
pets they can actually be an attraction
for coyotes
and you could end up losing your pet
other things are not to try and tame a
coyote some people actually try and
befriend them and they end up with an
animal that comes around way too often
and will eventually sometimes bite
somebody so be it be aware that that the
Coyotes can be in an area and if you can
if you can trim shrubs up off the ground
to reduce locations where coyotes can
hide and make sure that abandoned areas
also are sealed up so that coyotes don't
start using them as den sites then
you'll reduce the likelihood that you'll
have interactions with coyotes coyotes
are what we would call a generalist
consumer they eat pretty much anything
and it depends on what's available as to
what makes their diet we feed these
coyotes a variety of meats including
chicken turkey ground beef we also feed
them whole carcass quail rodents and
then also a variety of fruits and
vegetables and I don't think people
really realize that so we pick up a lot
of coyotes in fruit orchards and areas
that people have lots of fruit that's
fallen off the trees so coyotes will
vary a great deal in what they consume
depending upon what's available
the track of a coyote could be confused
with a bobcat track because they both
have four toes the distinguishing
characteristics between a coyote and a
cat track like a bobcat is that the pad
of the Bobcat will have three lobes on
the bottom and the coyote track will
only have two in addition the track of
the coyote almost always leaves marks
where the toenails are which are
retracted in a cat and the cats then
seldom leaves any marks for toenails
coyotes have home ranges that vary from
around three square miles to as many as
fifteen square miles and that depends
upon how much area is necessary in order
for the coyote to have enough food to
meet its nutritional requirements in
good habitat then coyotes have
relatively small home ranges and in
places where they're more arid and the
prey items are less dense than the home
range will expand for more information
on what to do to protect you yourself
and your house from attracting coyotes
visit keep me wild org